---
layout: post
author: tea-win
---
The researchers found that the Broca’s area in the frontal brain of the left hemisphere is one of the regions that was involved in the processing of sign language. The region has long been known to play a central role in spoken language, where it is used for grammar and meaning. The Leipzig-based researchers were able to confirm that there is an overlap between spoken and signed language in Broca’s area. They also succeeded in showing the role played by the right frontal brain—the counterpart to Broca’s area on the left side of the brain. That area processes non-linguistic aspects such as spatial or social information of its counterpart. This means that movements of the hands, face, and body—of which signs consist—are in principle perceived similarly by deaf and hearing people. Only in the case of deaf people, do they additionally activate the language network in the left hemisphere of the brain, including Broca’s area. They, therefore, perceived the gestures as gestures with linguistic content—instead of as pure movement sequences, as would be the case with hearing people.
The results show that Broca’s area in the left hemisphere is a central node in the language network of the human brain. Broca’s area thus processes not only spoken and written language, as has been known up to now but also abstract linguistic information in any form of language in general. 

### OUTLOOK: 
Sign Language (SL) offers a unique opportunity to probe hypotheses regarding the human capacity for language-independent of speech. Hopefully, the increasing interest in SL in the neuroimaging community will make it possible in the future to perform more fine-grained meta-analyses of SL comprehension which could help to characterize different linguistics subsystems. For example, different subregions of Broca’s area may be differentially involved in processing semantic as opposed to syntactic information and vice versa also for SL. Moreover, as the number of modality-specific aspects of SL increases, such as the syntactic as well as topographic use of space will make it possible to mata-analytically characterize the interactions of regions in the primarily left-hemispheric core language network described in this study with other networks during SL processing in cases where SL and SWL diverge.
