---
layout: post
author: jill
---
### Grandmother Neuron
The idea first showed up in the 1960s as a theoretical brain cell that would code for a specific, complex concept, all by itself. For example: one neuron for the memory of one’s grandmother, another to recall one’s mother, and so on. The idea was an attempt to tackle the mystery of how the brain combines what we see with our long-term memory. 
However, new research reveals a class of neurons in the brain’s temporal pole region that links face perception to long-term memory. It’s a population of cells that collectively remembers grandma’s face.

### How did they do it?
They used functional magnetic resonance imaging as a guide to zoom in on the temporal pole regions of two rhesus monkeys, and recorded the electrical signals of temporal pole neurons as the macaques watched images of familiar faces (which they had seen in-person) and unfamiliar faces that they had only seen virtually on screen.

The team found that neurons in the TP region were responding threefold more strongly to familiar faces more strongly than unfamiliar faces. And the neurons were fast-- discriminating between known and unknown faces immediately upon processing the image.


### Ok but what about grandmother neuron?

Although the finding about grandmother neuron remained elusive, the first evidence of a hybrid brain cell, not unlike the fabled grandmother neuron. The cells of the TP region behave like sensory cells, with reliable and fast response to visual stimuli. But they also act like memory cells, which respond only to stimuli that the brain has seen before (i.e, familiar individuals). And more importantly, the cells of the TP region appear to work as “a collective” (unlike the theory). 



